Dr. Alexander organized and chaired six major conferences on non-lethal warfare and served as a US delegate to several NATO studies on the topic.  As a member of the first Council on Foreign Relations non-lethal warfare study, he was instrumental in influencing the report that is credited with causing the Department of Defense to create a formal Non-Lethal Weapons Policy in July 1996.  He was a distinguished guest lecturer at several DOD universities and has advised the CIA, US Special Operations Command, and the National Intelligence Council.

Academically, he holds a M.A., Pepperdine University, Ph.D., Walden University, and later attended the Anderson School of Management at UCLA, the Sloan School of Management at MIT, and the Kennedy School of Government general officer program “National and International Security for Senior Executives” at Harvard University.  In addition to many military awards for valor and service, Aviation Week & Space Technology selected him as a 1993 Aerospace Laureate and in 1997 inducted him into their Hall of Fame at the National Air and Space Museum in Washington.  He received a Department of Energy Award of Excellence for the Nuclear Weapons Program in 1994, and is listed in Who’s Who in America, Who’s Who in Science and Engineering, American Men and Women of Science, and in 2001 was named to the OCS Hall of Fame at Ft. Benning, Georgia. During 2001 and 2002 he was a member of the National Research Council Committee for Assessment of Non-Lethal Weapons Science and Technology. In 2012 he received the Knowlton Award for lifelong contributions to military intelligence. For nearly a decade he was a Senior Fellow at the Joint Special Operations University which published several of his monographs (all available on this web site).﻿

Currently he is a private consultant.  His books include, The Warrior’s Edge, Wm. Morrow, (1990) Future War, with foreword by Tom Clancy, St. Martin’s Press (1999), and the sequel, Winning the War, published August 2003. UFOs: Myths Conspiracies and Realities was released in February 2011 by St. Martin's Press with a paperback edition in 2012. His latest book, Reality Denied: Firsthand Experience with Things That Can't Happen - But Did was published September, 2017.

